we use axios from proper flow of data between backend and frontend .

why using json ??
---->> actually we need to choose a language for commmunication and it is suitable for that purpose

in frontend what happens ??
📦 Fetching Data Using Axios – Conceptual Flow
1️⃣ Frontend initiates a request
The frontend (often in a useEffect or similar lifecycle function) initiates an HTTP request using Axios.

The syntax usually looks like axios.get(URL) or axios.post(URL, data).

This creates a Promise-based asynchronous request to the backend server.

2️⃣ Axios sends HTTP request to backend
Axios sends the request over the network to the specified endpoint (e.g., /posts).

It attaches headers like Accept: application/json to indicate it expects a JSON response.

3️⃣ Backend prepares and sends JSON response
The backend receives the request and processes it (e.g., queries a database).

It sends a response, typically in raw JSON format, like a string:
"[{ \"id\": 1, \"title\": \"...\" }, ...]".

This JSON is placed in the body of the HTTP response, not immediately as usable JS objects.

4️⃣ Axios receives and parses the response
Axios automatically detects that the response has Content-Type: application/json.

It parses the JSON string from the HTTP body into usable JavaScript objects/arrays.

Axios wraps everything into a structured response object.

5️⃣ Axios returns a response object
Axios resolves the original promise and provides a response object that includes:

data → the actual parsed JSON data

status → the HTTP status code (e.g., 200 OK)
AGR DEFAULT NHI CHAHTE AUR KHUD KA BHEJNA CHAHTE USE BELOW ONE
res.status(201).json({
  message: 'Post created successfully',
  post: newPost
});

headers, config, etc. → meta-information about the request/response

6️⃣ Frontend extracts response.data
The developer accesses response.data from the Axios response.

This contains only the usable part: the actual JavaScript data from the backend.

7️⃣ Frontend uses the data
response.data is then:

Stored in a state variable (like useState)

Passed to UI components for rendering

Used in further logic, filtering, or manipulation

🧠 Why use Axios?
Auto JSON parsing — Unlike fetch, no need to manually use .json()

Error handling — Built-in HTTP status-based error capture

Cleaner syntax — Shorter and more readable compared to fetch

Support for features like interceptors, cancellation, headers, etc.

🔁 Summary of Flow
Step	Purpose
Frontend calls axios.get()	Initiates request
Axios sends HTTP request	Communicates with backend
Backend sends raw JSON	Provides data in string format
Axios parses response	Converts to JavaScript objects
Returns response.data	Contains clean, usable data
Data used in UI / logic	Rendered or used inside the frontend app
